Poll Everywhere
Github - get the lecture demo
slides.com

Slide 2
Plan for today

Stage 2 is due Wednesday November 6

Stage 3 is currently set to be due 2 weeks later on Wednesday Nov 20
Stage 4 is set to be due Friday Dec 6.


Slide 3 - 
CheckIn Poll

----------------

Slide 4
How much data do we need for stage 2?
Some, not alot.
10 to 20 rows of data in a csv or json file would be sufficient. Not 100 mb because github will choke

What's the main reason you'd use java script DOM over jQuery?
Previously JQuery made life easier to do DOM manipulation across all browsers. Now it's not so much.

Mostly because you refrain from jquery so you don't want to download a 50k script file if you don't need it.
Also, there are situations where other libraries/frameworks don't play nicely with jQuery

And it doesn't work well with React

------------------

SLIDE 5

jQuery is powerful and easy to use. It's easier than directly manipulating the DOM through
the document object and jscript. 
React doesn't play nicely with jQuery. 

When you use these external libraries, often it's as much work to learn how to use the
library, but it's tested, stable and likely documented.

You are welcome to use jQuery in stage 2.
Stage 3 we will be moving to react so you probably won't be using jQuery

--------------

Slide 6
JQuery is an example of an external libary. We use these so we don't have to build everything ourselves.

JQuery is like the bootstrap of javascript

Sometimes you can build a method almost as quickly, but jquery has been tested, it's clean, likely efficient.

You grab jQuery as an external library 

--> https://jquery.com/
Then click on "download" and scroll down to the CDN (content delivery network)
Then click on the CDNJS CDN link

This gives you links

You'll use the 3.41/jquery.min.js (minified version)

Use the CDN so you don't have to download locally

Show the script added at the bottom of the demo.

Pro-tip: Visual Studio Code will automatically download the type definitions for any library listed as a dependency in the project’s package.json. For example, if you include Lodash as a dependency (by installing it with npm install --save lodash), then just typing the _. will cause VS Code to provide autocomplete options. This makes it a good idea to install JavaScript libraries via npm, even if you plan on loading the library from a CDN instead of from a local file.

jQuery is common enough that it's likely that your users have it already 
on their machines and won't pay the download cost either

You need to put the jQuery script above your own jscript file is loaded. Otherwise your script
won't know about jQuery.

If we are going to use jquery, then you need to run it before your script.

-------------------
SLIDE 7

jQuery is a global object we can use. 

jQuery() takes a css selector, just like document.queryselector()


In practice, noone uses jQuery(), instead they use the $() alias
It's a nickname. 



Lodash is another library that is popular. It uses "_" as the alias. 
Why Lodash?
Lodash makes JavaScript easier by taking the hassle out of working with arrays, numbers, objects, strings, etc.
Lodash’s modular methods are great for:

Iterating arrays, objects, & strings
Manipulating & testing values
Creating composite functions


----------------
SLIDE 8
Almost all jQuery methods are getter and setter functions. If you pass an argument you are usually setting.
If you aren't passing an argument you are getting the value.

SLIDE 9
Here's the html code to create the objects on the slide. It's using svg. 


SLIDE 10
Let's look at jQuery in action with the demo

we get a jQuery object with the 'h1' selector
see it returns a jquery function wrapper. 


SLIDE 11
Use jQuery to place the ball


Just about every method does the change and returns a reference back to the changed object

in our initial example we have (example1) :
ball.attr('cx',225);
ball.attr('cy',95);

since the first call returns a reference to the object again, we can chain

so (example 2)
ball.attr('cx', 225).attr('cy', 95)

another syntax is:
ball
    .attr('cx', 225)
    .attr('cy', 95)


(example 3) is where we pass in an object with both attributes


Take a look at the jQuery attr() documentation. There's a link on the side of the slide.
It's really good.  Maybe the best you can find.

Lots of ways to call it.
Code snippets

Navigation on the left hand side which is a taxonomy of jQuery. Really helpful

Another way to call the attr() method is to pass in key value pairs

You will want to know how to access this documentation for the homework.


SLIDE 12

Buttons

NOTE - This example grabs every "button". 

The CSS selector method in jScript is automatically a "foreach"

Every button on the page in our example. 

You don't need to do a query selector all, and then forEach loop to set the attritutes you want.


SLIDE 13

Adding a new element

In jQuery we can create the whole html element 
We still have to add it to the page.

append is for jquery, appendchild is for queryselector

Don't add a bunch of new content in jQuery

Remember that we don't want to do a whole lot of content through our jscript as a general rule. 

You can also create just the element:

let newP = $("<p>")

---------------------------------------
SLIDE 14
Event listeners

This is how you register them in jquery. 

click()
mousedown()
keypress()
etc...

Click is the most common, but there are other listeners...



Example 1

Very simlar in concept to direct DOM manipulation

To add an event listener you call the click method.
It's a convenience method

If the object doesn't have the method, you'll get an error
whereas if you mistype the eventlistener event in normal DOM manipulation, it might not
be so obvious. 

The method returns an event DOM element (not jquery object)

So you can't directly call the jquery methods.

The common thing to do then is to wrap this event object in a jQuery function call

All parameters are optional in jScript. But in our examples here we want to use
the event attributes.


SLIDE 15 - JQuery Demo - the slide up demo
Event listener example 2

Animiation

1000 miliseconds

jQuery effects are what we are showing here. Look online

It sets the display to none after the height gets down to 0.

slideup, slidedown, fadein, fadeout, etc... these are some effects available in jquery for animation.

--------------
SLIDE 16

Note we have a const state object where we can set the playground-ball at top whether it's at the top of the slide

note we "animate" the ball

on click, we 
check to see if the ball is at the top or not

if it is, animate the slide (1000 miliseconds to the bottom of the slide
then set the ball to that spot, and set the const to false

if it's not at the top, reset to the top
)





