Demo Overview
-------------------
SLIDE 2:

We'll spend today going over most of the rest of React

We'll try and pack most of this into 1 hour and anything that spills over we will do on Monday.

Elisa will cover problem 7 in this session too.

Any extra time you'll have time to do work time. Lab similarly is going to be about worktime going forward

--------------------
SlIDE 3:

Stage 3 (Due next Wednesday

You will rewrite the code in React. It's a clean-up step. We've hit a nice milestone.
Now the task here is to clean things up before we add more functionality
Fix bugs
Make it cleaner and more organized.

React does a nice job of making your code organized.

You will do this in pairs.

As you are finishing this up... you should fill in the missing things. 
Make it more useable and make it more polished. But you don't need to build some new feature to add.

It's designed to be an easier stage.

Stage2 functionality

Use an external component... It could be the bootstap, or font-awesome
If you did it in stage 2, this will pretty easy for you. These examples above are sufficient.

Feedback on user interactions, it should be clear
Don't have it change way down the page

Accessible

We will deploy to firebase hosting instead of -gh

This will resolve a number of wierd  things 

There are instructions for how to do this in the assignment writeup.

------------------------

SLIDE 4

Ping me if you have questions about your project. 

---------------------
SLIDE 5

Calendar

We're getting to the end of the quarter and new material. Today is kind of the last big lecture. React Router won't be as long of a lecture 
Firebase isn't trivial, but it's not as big of a topic. 

-----------------

SLIDE 6 (instrumented slide 1 click)

Before starting Slide 6, have them get the Demo in place on their machine

If you want to follow along. You can grab the demo from "interactive-react" demo

cd into the react-interactive
run npm install to install dependencies to get everything installed

This is the same TaskList assignment you built previously. Only now we're building this with React

What components do we see as options?

Task list
Tasks
input box (form)

Note in our demo, in the index.js file we call the React.render() function and instantiate an <app> component to be rendered at the 'root'.

Note we are passing in the sample tasks as a prop "initialTasks" which is what we will show initially.

Now show on the slide the <app> component



----React Review

We use "components" as pieces in React
Extending the React Component Class

Each component has it's own render method

We use JSX to define these components

We can pass things in as props as attribute to show what should be showing

We can use {} to pass things in inline.
----------------------------

SLIDE 7

Bring up App.js, use outline view to show 

App
Tasklist
Task
AddTaskForm

GO THROUGH THE SLIDE 7 BEFORE WALKING THROUGH IT IN Visual Studio


START WITH with index.js

The first thing we are doing...

We have an array of task objects called SAMPLE_TASKS

And we Render() an App component and we pass in the array as a prop called "tasks"
--- 
THAT TAKES us to the app.js file

<app>
<TaskList>
<Task>
<AddTaskForm>

The app component has a render() method because all components have a render() function. It returns an element that can be displayed on the screen.

It takes in the intial prop  initialTasks which was passed in as a prop. 
The "incomplete" array calculation will be used in the paragraph above the task list to show how many items are left to be completed. 
Notice it's passed in with a {} which is an inline expression which resolves to the number 2

We have some data processing to look for incomplete tasks using the filter method off of the array

It renders() a div element which contains another element "TaskList" which passes along the prop tasks which we assigned at the top of the render() method. So it continues to cascade down

Finally we add the <AddTaskForm> component

Does this syntax seem okay?

-----

NOW LETS LOOK at the TaskList component:

It returns an ol embedded with taskComponents in the render() method

It has a basic render() method
It takes in the task component array as a prop, and as we talked about at last lecture we can use the .map() array method to instantiate each of the items in the array as a "<Task>" component which makes "taskComponents" and array of Tasks components and not just the array of objects.

So it transforms this array that was passed down as a prop and creates (transforms) into an array of components. 

Remember we set the key as well as the task in our initial array because of the warning react gives.

Then we render the list of <taskComponent>

You can show this in the developer mode on the browser.

----

FINALLY WE LOOK at the Task component

Each Task element renders as an 'li' with the classname (strike or not), and the task description

The "getClassName() is a helper method to determine if the task is complete or not and set the className to font-strike or not
---------------

Whew, that's the overview.


Any Questions so far

-------------
SLIDE 8

Concepts we'll be covering

------------------
SLIDE 9
REACT EVENTS


There are 2 interactions we want to support

Clicking on the "Add task to List" and Clicking on items to mark them complete

<click once to see onClick special prop part of slide>
We add add event handling pretty much the same way as DOM and jQuery

We register a listener

We do this give it a special Property called "onClick={ }
Where we pass the callback as a inline value {}

-- addeventlistener(click) is the same thing

EXAMPLE 1 - Adding event handler to handle clicks to mark complete
in app.js, on the Task component (about line 97)

Here we create a function "handleClick()", there is nothing special in the name

We include "handleClick" without the () in the callback {} because we are passing the recipe not executing it.

Look at the clicky clicky


Now what if we want to access the prop value to show which one we're clicking on? 
Uncomment the //console.log("clicky clicky", this.props.task.description);

It should fail because of a lack of arrow function

The error is that it cannot read props of undefined. the "this" is undefined.
It's undefined because lose the "this" unless we bind, or use an arrow function.
---------------------------------------


SLIDE 10, SLIDE 11, 12
Retaining this

There are 3 different approaches to retaining the this.

Slide 10
First is to bind the function in the constructor. It's tedious to do this in every constructor

Maybe not the best option.

Slide 11
Second:
Wrapping our callback in an arrow function

There is perhaps a benefit this method for perf reasons because the function isn't instantiated again each time they render method is called which it is when the anonomous function is included (wrapped in an arrow function).

Slide 12
Third:
Using a public class field

Here we assign that arrow function (we would have passed in the callback) to a variable and then pass that variable instead.

EXAMPLE 1A will fix this using a public class field
Uncomment the code and it works

This works because the jsx precompiler gets it to work. It's an emerging practice. Probably will show up in jscript standard eventually. It works in react.

Notice what is different between the two arguments in the li...
the this.getClassName() is actually running the function so the this is correct
But the this.handleClick is passing the recipe, so the this is lost when not using an arrow

See that it shows which task is clicked on.
---------------

SLIDE 13

So now we want to toggle the state of the item

Rather than logging out "clicky clicky", we'd like to toggle the state of the item.

In this example, we are receiving a function called 'howToToggle' as a prop that we will call to toggle the task each click.

The way we determine is to look at the this.props.task.complete

We'd like to just change the prop.

But the issue is that we can't change a prop...

So looking at the code on the slide, we can't actually change the prop, we need the function to change state.


SLIDE 14
Jumping ahead, the second interaction we want to complete is the clicking on the "Add task to list" button.

Click again to show the onClick code

Notice that we are updating "state" rather than trying to use props

Why

-----

SLIDE 15

React Props

props are immutable (unchangeable) and come from elements up the hierarchy

------------------
SLIDE 16
State

Reserved for interactivity... data that changes over time

It looks alot like props but they are very different


Props are initial values.. what goes into the constructor

State data that keeps track of things that change over time

That data can't be stored in props because props don't change

Each component keeps track of it's own state

-------------------
SLIDE 17 (animated slide- 4 clicks)

Using State

How to add in state


We need to initial state in the constructor

Add this to the Task constructor

Always takes in a single argument "props": constructor(props)


We always call the parents version of the constructor  "super(props)"

Click once - component constructor takes in props

Click twice - Must call the superclass constructor too

Click 3 - Set the state value. It must be an object

Click 4 - You can access state like with props {this.state.count}

Don't use something as a state var if it doesn't get used in render()


EXAMPLE STATE --- SWITCH TO Example 2 on the Task element
In example 2 initially we are still only showing the strikethrough.

-----------
SLIDE 18

Changing state -
this.setState(stateChanges);

This will both change state and cause a re-render

Click - you only need to change the object values that are changing.

This is an Asynchronous process.

It's done for efficiency. It speeds things up by bundling renders.

We have to call this.setState() rather than assigning a value

It takes as an argument what we want set

AFter setstate gets done, the render is called

It causes the app to re-render

EXAMPLE 2A

There are 3 lines of code to note:

1) We set the this.state in the constructor
2) We have a line to set the class to strike-through in the getClassName() helper function
3) We use setState to change clickcount in the handleClick function


----------------
SLIDE 19

setState() is Asynchronous

It takes time...

See how the code on the slide works... the console.log will not show the updated value


----------------
Slide 20

EXAMPLE 2B - modifying something based on current state


If you wanted to increase this count (modify something based on current state)
Then you need to call this.setState() with a callback function rather than an object

It's annoying, but this is how it works

Example 2B

let's store this stuff in state
let's set stuff based on the initial value passed in the props
let's get the toggle to work

-------------------------------------------------------


Bug in the title showing the number

The 2 at the top should be based on the tasks are complete
Currently the state info is being tracked by the individual task

But no-one else knows what's going on (parents up the chain)

If we need some value that can be used by multiple components, then we want to be able to share this for all to see what the value is because the whole app is tracking this.


See the <app> renders the number (Look at the App component)

THe way we fix this is by lifting up the state
-----------------

SLIDE 21
Let's have the Tasklist keep track of the state rather than the individual elements


Click once - show that the property is now held in the parent

click twice - show how you can pass state to the child through a prop to tell them how many they have

EXAMPLE 3
Moving state up all the way to the App (we could pass to the tasklist, but it doesn't really need that info, so we are moving all the way to app). The app needs to know because it needs to know how many things are complete

So we put in an array of tasks into the APP

this.state = { tasks: [] }

or set it to the initial tasks

{tasks: this.props.initialTasks}

-----------------------------

SLIDE 22
Passing callbacks - 

The parent component needs to do something when an event occur, so it passes callback functions to the chile component to execute. For example in the slide, there is a callback passed in the prop when the button is clicked. 

Click 1 - Lift the method to parent
Pass the method as prop
Call the method in the child
This is how you get the handler to update state in the parent!


Do not call setState directly within render(), you'll get into an infinite loop


-------------------------------

SLIDE 23

Demo Example - App Component - What we've done with the TaskForm

Click 1 will show 

---------------------------
SLIDE 24

Click 1 will show how this the taskform now updates state in the parent by calling the callback that was passed in as a prop

---------------------
SLIDE 25

Use the onChange event handler to set state in the similar way we are dealing with onClick

Grab the value out of the event object in your event handler, and set the value in to the state variable

SEE THE CODE for AddTaskForm to show how this works



--------------------

SLIDE 26
Making your app Interactive


------------------

SLIDE 27
Here's how you get fetch() to work in React

----------------------

SLIDE 28

Component LifeCycle

componentDidMount() is the one that is called when all components have been put on the screen 

------------------
SLIDE 29
AJAX and React

Do your AJAX requests in the componentDidMount method... set call setState() within this function to set you values... which will then call render!





